>> Scott Moss: Cool, okay, so what I
recommend doing is, especially if you
are going to take the Serverside GraphQL
course that talks about the back end of
this, but you don't have to take it
to do what I'm about to recommend.
I do recommend going in here.
And, for instance, if you notice,
I have a, if you go to Apollo Server,
if you go to mutations, you notice
I have a deleteIssue mutation here.
It works.
It's ready to go.
Make a UI where you can delete an issue.
Add a button on the issue, click it,
have it delete, update the cache so
it removes it from the page if it doesn't
do it automatically, and start that.
That is, you don't have to do anything
on a server side to make that work.
The query's already done,
the mutation's already done,
database query's already done.
You just gotta write the UI for
it in interaction.
So hook that up, try that.
And then if you do the server-side stuff,
there's gonna [LAUGH] be a lot of
stuff you could do, so much stuff.
But yeah, I highly recommend doing that,
if you wanna go a little further and
try that out.
So other than that,
most of the other resources are usually,
there are a lot of more
frontend resources, but
they're mostly just
alternatives to what Oracle is.
I talked about code gen,
if you wanna check that out,
if you wanna generate TypeScript types for
your queries, you could do that.
There is a lot more about querying
that I did not talk about
because I myself almost never
use them in production.
So I just don't teach
things that I don't use.
But I heard they're pretty useful, so
I highly recommend going to
the GraphQL documentation website,
and they have a best practice
thing in here, that's pretty good.
I highly recommend checking that out.
But they have different things in
here where they talk about something
called fragments.
That's quite useful.
I don't actually use fragments.
Here they are, fragments are like, they're
like little pieces of a query that you can
share with other queries, so
you don't have to rewrite them every time.
So if you have multiple queries that
always get this piece of a user and
you don't have to rewrite that every
single time, you can make that a fragment.
And then you can share
those fragments everywhere.
But, I don't know, you can also just
share a string around, too, I don't know.
[LAUGH] There's a lot of stuff.
There's also unions and
things like that, but
that actually requires
a lot of server-side stuff.
So I didn't get to it.
I couldn't find a good use case
to introduce that to you guys.
But on the back end,
we could probably do it.
Directives are really cool,
also pretty advanced.
You can add directives,
which are custom functions that
run on the AST of the schema.
It's all GraphQL back end stuff,
you have to actually write the logic for
this directive on the back end, even
though you're querying it on your client,
but that's the syntax for it.
And there are tons of libraries,
people make lodash directives,
so you can do all different
types of mapping and,
just all types of crazy stuff in
a GraphQL schema, so it gets pretty cool.
And then, yeah, this is unions and
things like that.
So we don't have to talk about that.
But, yeah, I highly recommend
just looking at this stuff.
It's just a little more than we talked
about, but again, I almost never use any
of those things in production, so I
didn't feel the need of talking about it.
But like I said,
a lot of people swear by these things.
Other than that,
I would say just build something in it.
There are tons of open APIs,
like the Star Wars API that I showed you,
if you just Google Open GraphQL APIs,
there's tons of them.
Go find one, connect to it,
go build a frontend with it, or honestly,
just pull it open in here.
Add the URL into Apollo Client or
Apollo Studio and explore that API,
try the queries, if they have mutations,
try the mutations, and
just get familiar with that syntax.
You don't even need to make an app just to
get more practice with it because I think
when you use GraphQL on the client side,
it clearly feels better.
Making it is where the pain is.
So you can skip all the pain and
just play with something that's public.
So that's what I recommend.
But other than that, definitely recommend
taking the server-side course that we're
gonna be teaching.
It covers the server-side version of this.
It's gonna go way more in depth
to the real value of GraphQL.
It's gonna be backend
heavy database stuff.
Basically, how do you
resolve a graph query?
How do you enable this
experience that we use today?
It's quite different than
anything you've ever done.
So I do recommend taking that course to
really bring your knowledge full circle.
And, yeah, that's it.
Thanks for coming to the course, folks.
>> Speaker 2: [APPLAUSE]